***01 INTRO TO FLASK

FLASK is a micro-framework written in python for the web. Micro-framework means it is simple but higly extensible

Terminal/Command Prompt/Console allows us to accomplish and automate tasks on a computer without the use of a graphical user interface (GUI).

**Navigation:
pwd : (print working directory) 
cd : (change directory)
cd ~ : Takes you to your home directory s: list files and directories.
ls -l : List the files in the working directory in long format
ls -a: List all files including hidden ones. Hidden Files usually start with a dot. e.g (.env)
less : lets us view text files.
file: The file command will examine a file and tell us what kind of File it is.

**Manipulating files
cp : Copy files and directories
cp file1 file2 : copies the contents of file1 into file2. If file2does not exist, it is created.
cp file1 dir1 : copy the contents of file1 (into a file named File1) inside of directory dir1.
cp -R dir1 dir2 : copy the contents of the directory 1 to 2. mv-move or rename files and directories

mv file1 file2 : replace file1 with file2.
mv file1 file2 dir1 : The files file1 and file2 are moved to dir2
mv dir1 dir2 : If dir2 does not exist, then dir1 is renamed dir2. If dir2 exists, the directory dir1 is into directory dir2.

rm : remove files and directories
rm file1 file2 : delete file1 and file2.
rm -r dir1 dir2 : Directories dir1 and dir2 are deleted along with all of their contents.

mkdir : create directories
mkdir dir1 : creates a new directory called dir1

**Editing text files
Nano and Vim are built in text editors that comes with the terminal
Nano is easier to work with.

nano <filename.extension> : to open an existing or a new with Nano.

CTRL + O + Enter : to save a file after editing.
CTRL + X : to exit nano after editing.


***02 CORE FLASK

HTTP Server - a software that understands URLs (web addresses)
HTTP - the protocol the browser uses to view the web pages (HTML pages)

HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) - the underlying network protocol that enables transfer of hypermedia documents (HTML - HyperText Markup Language) on the web

URL (Uniform Resource Locator) - the address of a given unique resource on the web.

Localhost - private address for personal computer. It's typically the equivalent of the internal IP address 127.0.0.1 and it's only available to the local computer.


*HTTP Verbs (Request Methods)

GET: used to retrieve information from the given server using a given url. Request using GET should only retrieve data and should have no effect on the data

POST: used to send data to the server for example, customer information, File upload e.t.c

DELETE: deletes the specified resource.

PUT: replaces all the current representations of the target resource with the uploaded content.

PATCH: applies partial modifications to a resource.